Subject:[Marxism-Thaxis] Not wary enough of the "lesser evil" to break with
	it
Marv Gandall :However, this view, with its faint echo of "the worse,
the better", overlooks that the tie of the unions and black, women's
and other organizations to the Democratic Party tends to strengthen
rather than weaken when the Republicans are in power - when the DP is
even more urgently seen as the only means of removing a party more
implacably opposed to their gains and programs.

^^^^^
CB: Indeed, Marv. Also, Obama has gotten a pay equity for women law
passed, and appointed two liberal women ( and only women) to the US
Supreme Court in preparation for the coming war on _Roe v Wade_.
Feminist organization's ties to Obama and the Dems have been
strengthened during the Obama term by Obama's major pro-women actions.

As far as unions, they are not at all fooled that the Dems and tea
Republicans of the US House are playing the same role in the budget
battles !  And the anti-Obama tea Republican surge in 2010 resulted in
state governments in Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio , Michigan and maybe
others that have introduced dozens of anti-labor, anti-collective
bargaining and anti-working class laws. Indiana passed a
right-to-work-for-less law.  In Michigan, labor has countered  with a
state constitutional amendment proposal affirming collective
bargaining. Ohio labor, of course, repealed an anti-collective
bargaining law through referendum.

All this struggles with tea Republican governors and legislatures has
moved unions closer to Dems _during_ a Dem President's term  The
federal budget battle is one of several issues important to unions or
the working class. On the other hand,  the Ryan budget is way to the
right of any alleged "betrayal" compromise by Obama (smiles). The
notion of unions moving away from the Dems as "evil-too" in this
period, and the Black Agenda's musings about Black people moving away
from the Dems with Obama as President is , of course,  Never Never
Land political analysis.

Labor is not unaware that the Wall Street money has shifted to Romney.
Rather the struggles of the last two years make it clear to unions,
that in the US anti-Black politics attacks are always a cover , a
front, for anti-working class and anti-labor attacks. Scratch a
race-hater; find a redbaiter. The white supremacist core of the tea
Republican's line with anti-Obama centerpiece has , for all labor to
see, put in power anti-labor minions from ALEC in the governors'
offices, state legislatures and US House of Representatives.

As Karl Marx said of the US, labor in the white skin will not be free
while labor in the black skin is branded.  Workers of all races ,
unite !

_______________________________________________
Marxism-Thaxis mailing list
Marxism-Thaxis@greenhouse.economics.utah.edu
To change your options or unsubscribe go to:
http://greenhouse.economics.utah.edu/mailman/listinfo/marxism-thaxis
