Subject:[Chelsea] 'I'll break your legs': Clattenburg vs Chelsea post-game
	bust-up stunned onlookers [Mirror]
29 Oct 2012 22:32

A foul-mouthed threat of violence was overheard as a band of Blues
confronted the referee in his changing room after stormy loss to
Manchester United

By Darren Lewis

The FA have received details of a furious confrontation in the referee's
changing room at Stamford Bridge involving angry Chelsea officials, Mark
Clattenburg and John Obi Mikel.

Clattenburg is believed to have referred to an 'extraordinary incident'
in his report of the Blues' highly-charged loss to Manchester United.

It emerged late on Monday that the words "I'm gonna f******g break your
legs" were heard during a furious post-match bust-up.

They came from inside the referee's dressing room as Clattenburg and his
officials were angrily confronted by Chelsea staff and Mikel, the man
the Blues claim was racially abused by the Gosforth official on Sunday.

The Mirror understands the scenes became so heated, onlookers described
the intervention of security staff as resembling "bouncers at a pub
brawl".

The bust-up came after Chelsea had two men sent off in United's
explosive 3-2 win.

It also came as the European champions claimed Clattenburg had used
language which could be interpreted as racist towards Mikel and Juan
Mata.

The fall-out from the match continued on Monday, as the police received
a complaint relating to the incident and referees' union Prospect leapt
to Clattenburg's defence.

Prospect said in a statement: "Prospect is committed to helping to
eradicate racism in football and in society generally.

"In the context of that commitment, Prospect is offering full support to
Mark Clattenburg in relation to the allegations made against him."

Clattenburg IS allowed to continue refereeing, but has been stood down
for this weekend's Premier League games by the Professional Game Match
Officials.

It said: "With any football match, the focus should not be on the
officials but on the players and the game itself.

"Mark Clattenburg is one of the elite referees in world football and, in
these circumstances, the intense level of scrutiny would detract from
the match and be unfair to the clubs and the supporters of both sides."

Meanwhile, the FA launched a formal probe into Chelsea's complaint.

Mindful of the criticism they attracted in the wake of the lengthy John
Terry investigation, FA chiefs realise it is in everyone's interests to
establish the facts of the case as quickly as possible.

A statement said: "'The FA has begun an investigation relating to
allegations made following Sunday's fixture at Stamford Bridge between
Chelsea and Manchester United.

"The FA will make no further comment at this time."

The FA will now speak to Clattenburg, his assistants Michael McDonough
and Simon Long and fourth official Michael Jones.

They are also set to make fresh contact with Chelsea, to ask for their
version of events.

And the FA are set to review TV footage, although the Mirror understands
they had not formally requested it from match broadcaster Sky Sports as
of Monday night.


Cops probe Chelsea steward's fall

By Darren Lewis

Police are investigating the cause of an injury to a steward who was
seen falling backwards over an advertising hoarding at Stamford Bridge
during Manchester United's win over Chelsea.

The prostrate steward, who was seen by millions of TV viewers, needed
treatment for more than 10 minutes and was later taken to hospital.

He was injured at the Matthew Harding Stand end, where United players
celebrated Javier Hernandez's winner - which was allowed to stand
despite replays showing the Mexican had been offside - in front of
Chelsea fans.

At the time, coins and a seat were seen being hurled from the stand.

Around =A320 worth of coins were later retrieved from the pitch.

regards
Harry



_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
