Subject:[child_lit] The City of Oakland/Oakland Public Library Recruitment
	for Supervising Librarian is Open until November 19, 2012
City of Oakland/Oakland Public Library Recruitment: 

Supervising Librarian Position 

Open from October 22, 2012 until November 19, 2012

 

Come and be a part of a passionate, people-oriented, buoyant team of
librarians and support staff who represent the Oakland Public Library's
commitment to service and vision for lifelong learning.

The Oakland Public Library seeks energetic, team-oriented Supervising
Librarians who are enthusiastic about serving the citizens of the
communities within the City of Oakland by delivering top-notch customer
service, upholding their public services commitment to our patrons, and
by making a difference in the lives of library users.

The Oakland Public Library has a main library, 16 neighborhood branches,
an African American Museum & Library, and an adult literacy program. We
currently employ approximately 450 employees and offer a very
competitive salary and benefits package for full-time and permanent
part-time civil service employees. 

Job Details:

The Supervising Librarian may be responsible for managing and directing
system-wide operations including the Main Library, Branch libraries,
Children's and Teen Services, Literacy and Disability Services, and
Technical and Special Services. These positions are senior supervisory
positions with responsibility for: planning, operations and management
within divisions; maintaining close liaison with the public; development
and implementation of policy and procedure; and performing other duties
as assigned. Incumbents exercise general supervision over Branch and
Unit Managers, Librarians at varying classification levels.

The salary range for the Supervising Librarian classification is
$40.47hour - $49.68hour, 37.5 hour work week (Currently, there is an
avg. of one mandatory business shutdown day per month.).  

How To Apply

City of Oakland application documents may be obtained in person or by
sending a self-addressed stamped envelope and request to the Office of
Personnel, 150 Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, 2nd Floor, Oakland, CA  94612-2019.
You may also call (510) 238-3112 for information.  

You may access a copy of the full job announcement at:
http://www.oaklandnet.com/government/jobs/
<http://www.oaklandnet.com/government/jobs/>  . Click on Current City
Job Openings to view current openings or access the online employment
application.

 

The application deadline is Monday, November 19, 2012 at 5pm if
application materials are submitted in person, OR by 11:59pm if
application materials are submitted online.  

 

Qualifications

Candidates must meet the minimum qualifications for the Supervising
Librarian classification, as follows:

Any combination of education and experience that is equivalent to the
following minimum qualifications is acceptable:

Education:  Master's degree in library sciences from an American Library
Association (ALA) accredited graduate school.    

Experience:  Two (2) years of experience comparable to Senior Librarian
in the City of Oakland, including 1 year of supervisory experience.

Licenses: Possession of a valid California Driver's License OR
demonstrated ability to travel to various locations in a timely manner
as required in the performance of duties is highly desirable. Due to the
nature of the assignment and the hours worked, public transportation may
not be a cost effective or efficient method of traveling to the various
locations required.

Additional Qualifications:  Bilingual skills in Spanish, Cantonese,
Mandarin and Vietnamese are desirable. 

 

The Job announcements and City applications are also available at the
Oakland Public Library Main Library (125 14th Street) on the 2nd floor
in the Financial & Administrative Services Office. For your convenience,
the Financial & Administrative Services Office is open to the public on
Mondays and Tuesdays from 10am - 5pm and on Wednesdays - Fridays from
12noon to 5pm to obtain application materials or to ask for assistance
with this civil service employment process.  

For additional assistance, please contact the Oakland Public Library's
Human Resources Division, at 510-238-3283

Come and see what the Oakland Public Library has to offer, and apply for
civil service employment at www.oaklandlibrary.org
<http://www.oaklandlibrary.org/> . Come experience our diverse
communities and realize the many possibilities!

 

Oakland Public Library

CITY OF OAKLAND

Your City. Your Career.

 

Thanks,

Crystal

 

Crystal Ramie-Adams

Human Resources Division

City Of Oakland/Oakland Public Library

125 14th Street, Room 210; Oakland, Ca. 94612

510-238-6716 office

510-238-2232 fax

cramie@oaklandnet.com <mailto:cramie@oaklandnet.com> 

 

Oakland Public Library

It's a Great Place to Work

Delight. Inspire. Inform

 

Oakland Ranked #5 Place to Visit in the World!

New York Times, January 2012  http://bit.ly/GB3s8f
<http://bit.ly/GB3s8f> 

 

 

 

_______________________________________________
child_lit mailing list
child_lit@email.rutgers.edu
https://email.rutgers.edu/mailman/listinfo/child_lit
