Subject:[Chelsea] Ferdinand to speak with Fergie before decision on shaking
	Cole's hand on Sunday [Mail]
[HS: Shockingly bizarre article here. Correct me if I'm wrong, but Rio
was found guilty, with no confusion about his message being seen or
being misinterpreted, of racially abusing Cole. This nonsense seems to
be saying that the proven racist, drug cheating, philandering, speeding
convict and homophobe (reminded today of him calling a radio 1 DJ a
faggot on air) has some kind of justification for questioning whether he
further abuses his victim who has magnanimously forgiven him. What
planet is he on?!]

By Sami Mokbel and Neil Ashton

Rio Ferdinand could refuse to shake Ashley Cole's hand before Sunday's
Barclays Premier League clash between Chelsea and Manchester United.

The United veteran will discuss the issue with manager Sir Alex Ferguson
before deciding if he will ignore his former England team-mate during
the pre-match ritual.

Ferdinand wants to respect Ferguson's views, particularly after last
weekend's controversy where the United boss criticised the 33-year-old
for not wearing a Kick It Out anti-racism T-shirt.

Ferdinand also wants to show solidarity with his brother Anton after
Cole gave court testimony in favour of John Terry earlier this year as
the Chelsea skipper was found not guilty of racially abusing the Queens
Park Rangers defender in October 2011.

It is understood Cole is willing to shake Ferdinand's hand before the
game at Stamford Bridge.

The United man was fined =A345,000 by the FA for appearing to endorse a
tweet describing Cole as a 'choc ice' -a slang term with clear racial
connotations.

And the bad blood between the Ferdinand brothers and Cole continued when
Anton refused to shake the 31-year-old's hand ahead of last month's game
between QPR and Chelsea.

Now FA chiefs are planning to change the tariff for race cases after
handing Terry a four-match ban when, after the court case, they found
him guilty of racially abusing Anton.

FA chairman David Bernstein said: 'We will look at the tariffs. The FA
received a lot of criticism over Terry, but we believe the independent
regulatory commission got it right.'

PFA chairman Clarke Carlisle added: 'Eight games is a minimum entry
level.

'The FA did punish John Terry in the parameters they had in place but
it's those parameters that are not strong enough to represent a more
tolerant attitude, so they need to be far tougher than just four games.'

regards
Harry



_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
