Subject:[Chelsea] Mata well aware of Chelsea's intense rivalry with
 Liverpool ahead of Sunday's clash [PA]
By Ben Rumsby Press Association
PUBLISHED:15:29, 10 November 2012| UPDATED:15:29, 10 November 2012

Juan Mata has admitted he was given a rude awakening about Chelsea's
rivalry with Liverpool but was determined not to be caught cold in
tomorrow's clash at Stamford Bridge.

Mata could have been forgiven for underestimating the Reds following
his =A323million move to Stamford Bridge last summer, with the Anfield
club having been nowhere near challenging for the Barclays Premier
League title in the previous two years.

But the fierce rivalry that had existed between the clubs for the best
part of a decade ensured Liverpool consistently raised their game
against Chelsea.

They duly won three of the sides' four meetings last season - the only
exception being the FA Cup final.

Mata played in Chelsea's home defeats in the league and Carling Cup
and was desperate to put that right in the kind of game he admitted
they needed to win to pose a serious title challenge.

'Playing against Liverpool is a tough game, as I realised last season
when we lost in the Carling Cup, in the league as well,' Mata told
Absolute Radio's Rock 'n' Roll Football.

'I think we have to be strong at home.

'We are feeling really good playing in Stamford Bridge with our
supporters, with their support.

'It's going to be tough.

'But I think if we want to win this Premier League, we have to be at
the level in these kind of games, against massive rivals.'

It would no exaggeration to say Chelsea's hopes of triumphing both
tomorrow and in the title race could depend on the performance of
Mata, who has arguably been the best player in the country this
season.

Yesterday saw him rewarded with a recall to the Spain squad after he
was inexplicably omitted for their World Cup qualifiers last month.

Arguably not as outrageously gifted as his new partners in crime, Eden
Hazard and Oscar, Mata has managed nevertheless to be more effective
than both combined.

It is the 24-year-old's intelligence which arguably makes him stand
apart and it may be no coincidence that he has combined his football
career with degrees in physical education and marketing.

'I think, if you are playing football, the study can help you to think
quicker,' he said.

If there is one area Mata, Oscar and Hazard need to improve, it is
helping out a defence that has conceded a whopping 14 goals in the
last six games.

He said: 'We're playing with freedom, Ed and Oscar and me, we all
three love to play with the ball, and our relationship with each other
is very good.

'But we know that, when we are defending, we have to be in those free
positions to defend.

'So, attacking, we play with freedom, but talking about defence, we
have to be very, very straight with the team.'

That was certainly not the case in Wednesday's Champions League
victory over Shakhtar Donetsk, in which Hazard in particular hung Ryan
Bertrand out to dry.

With Ashley Cole still injured, Bertrand is likely to start at
left-back again tomorrow, although he should be helped by having
captain John Terry back alongside him.

Manager Roberto Di Matteo said: "Ryan is a great asset, great player
for us. He's still a young player and probably he hasn't got as much
experience as Ashley, especially in a high-pressure game like it was
on Wednesday.

'There was maybe a little bit of tension within the team because of
the importance of that game.

'But he'll be a better player for that.

'That's part of a professional career. You're going to be thrown into
the deep end at times and you have to learn how to cope.'

Liverpool striker Luis Suarez likes to do much of his work out wide
and will need no second invitation to exploit any weakness there.

Di Matteo said: 'He's a magnificent player, isn't he, and a very
dangerous player, a big threat for any defenders that have to play
against him.

'They [Liverpool] don't have many other strikers but I think they have
some young, talented players, and also some experienced players.'

-- =

regards
Harry

_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
