Subject:[Apnic-announce] APNIC History Project
________________________________________________________________________

APNIC History Project
________________________________________________________________________


Dear Colleagues,

In 2013, APNIC will celebrate its 20th anniversary. Since 1993, APNIC
has proudly served the Asia Pacific Internet community, thanks to the
support, cooperation, and energy of people and organizations across the
region and beyond.

As we approach this anniversary, we want to improve our historical
archive of documents, milestones, stories, and personalities from
APNIC's first 10 years (1993-2003).

I am very pleased to welcome Gerard Ross who will work on behalf of
APNIC in the coming months on the APNIC History Project. Gerard was
APNIC's Documentation Manager between 1998 and 2007 so some of you may
know him already. In addition, he will also be working on the Asia
Internet History Project, under the leadership of Dr Kilnam Chon, and
will produce our input to the book and other publications.

In developing the archives, we need your help. If you have any official
documents, meeting notes, emails, photos, video, and even anecdotes or
other memories, we'd love to hear from you.

We are especially interested in anything that will help us tell our
early story and give full credit to all those individuals, Members,
supporting organizations, and partners who helped create APNIC.

Please send your contributions to:

	history@apnic.net

We thank you in advance for helping us spread the word about this
project and look forward to hearing from you.

________________________________________________________________________
Paul Wilson, Director-General, APNIC                        dg@apnic.net
http://www.apnic.net                                     +61 7 3858 3100
_______________________________________________
Apnic-announce mailing list
Apnic-announce@lists.apnic.net
http://mailman.apnic.net/mailman/listinfo/apnic-announce
