Subject:[Chelsea] At the eye of the storm: why Chelsea can do no right when
	it comes to race claims [Sulia]
[HS: This is excellent]

By Dan Levene

Commentators are presently clambering over each other to reach the
summit of a moral high-ground of greatest condemnation of Chelsea. 

So we have people adopting the position that the club was wrong to stick
by an employee cleared of criminal wrongdoing, but also wrong to punish
the same man when he accepted an FA charge.

Wrong to supposedly 'condone racism' by employing a man the anti-racist
bodies say is 'not a racist', and wrong to report allegations its own
employees were racially abused to the authorities.

Even wrong to take a principled stance on racism that sees anyone
criminally convicted of a racially-aggravated crime banned from its
premises for life.

The hyperbole rolls in: 'the dark heart of Chelsea', the 'evil lurking',
and of course 'the enemy of football'.

And this from commentators including those employed by media who have
displayed incredibly dangerous positions over race in the past.

One of the key protagonists in this is a newspaper that famously gave
its support to fascist thugs in their violent campaign to rid the
country of immigrants: which praised the agents and associates of Hitler
in the run-up to World War II, and which has barely shifted its position
on minorities since.

Last week we also had a man previously sacked from his job for
discriminatory behaviour insinuating to radio listeners that all in the
vicinity of the Matthew Harding End 'monkey' man were guilty of racism
by association.

The latest clause celebre, that Chelsea must be punished if claims
against Mark Clattenburg are found to be untrue, potentially sets the
fight against racism back to the days when the Daily Mail was lauding
the Blackshirts.

Criminalise the complainant, even when his grievance has been ruthlessly
researched to ensure it is entirely fair, reasonable, and based upon a
legitimately understood version of events.

All of this does seem to strongly suggest the present moral ambush of
Chelsea Football Club has very little to do with the fight against
racism, and far more to do with settling old scores.

regards
Harry



_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
