Subject:[Chelsea] Chelsea's Oscar: The making of a boy wonder [Independent]
How Chelsea's slender Brazilian battled to prove himself fit for his
country's No 10 shirt

Sam Wallace
Friday 26 October 2012

When Oscar dos Santos Emboaba Junior finally arrived at Chelsea for
his first training session in August, the immediate reaction was that
the boy who then was not yet 21, barely looked old enough to be
training with the Under-18s, let alone the first team. "Wow, he looks
young," tweeted Ashley Cole, in one of his more considered moments on
social media.

Yes, Oscar is young, but those who know him in Brazil will tell you
that the man himself has been through a lot even before his =A325m move
to London. Tomorrow at Stamford Bridge, he will face Manchester
United, the enduring power of modern English football, as one of the
new young attacking talents in Chelsea's team and with the world
watching.

Since his early teens in Sao Paulo's academy, Oscar was regarded as
having the potential to be the next great Brazilian No 10. His hero
Kaka had played for the club and the similarities in their physical
appearance and style of play, made comparisons obvious.

"Oscar is a very centred and disciplined character," Rodrigo Weber, an
executive at Internacional, the club who sold him to Chelsea, told The
Independent. "He knows what he is capable of doing. In Brazil we have
lots of players with great technical ability but only some who have
the mentality to become a superstar. We could see from the start he
was a star player."

Oscar's young career in Brazil was dominated by a court case that
threatened to have a serious effect on him. It began more than two
years ago when the player and his advisers identified what they
regarded as irregularities in his contract with Sao Paulo, with whom
he had been associated since the age of 13. Contract disputes are not
uncommon in Brazil but this one took a particularly unusual twist.

Oscar's case was heard by the Brazilian equivalent of an industrial
tribunal, who found in his favour and ruled that he could be a free
agent. In June 2010, at the age of 18, having the pick of Brazil's top
clubs, he signed for Internacional in Porto Alegre. But when Sao Paulo
appealed to the Superior Tribunal de Justica Desportiva, the problems
began.

Sao Paulo won the appeal and the court ruled that he should go back.
Given the ill-feeling, that was a non-starter and the clubs came to an
agreement of around 15m Brazilian reals [about =A34.5m] compensation for
Sao Paulo. Oscar had to miss three months of football while it was
sorted out.

The Globo Esporte journalist Alexandre Alliatti, who covered
Internacional, says Oscar made an instant impression. "From the first
he looked like a leader," Alliatti told The Independent. "He asked for
the ball all the time. He looks like a very young guy but he has a lot
of maturity."

Oscar grew up in the state of Sao Paulo, Brazil's most prosperous, but
moved to the city of Sao Paulo at the age of 13 to join the club's
academy. He is not, like Ronaldo and Romario, from a deprived
background. "Playing football and earning money that way was not like
an obligation for him," Alliatti says. "It was a choice."

Despite his talent, he had struggled to hold down a first team place
at Sao Paulo. At Internacional he arrived mid-campaign, training with
the senior squad but playing for the Under-23s. He also arrived in
Porto Alegre in winter, which is cold by Brazilian standards. "At
least it has prepared him for London," Weber says.

He won the national Under-23 championship with Internacional and coach
Celso Roth picked him for the Fifa Club World Cup in December 2010.
Internacional fared badly, beaten by Mazembe from Congo, but Oscar
never looked back. He formed a midfield partnership with the Argentine
Andres D'Alessandro, once on loan at Portsmouth and now captain of
Internacional. "Their friendship had a great effect on Oscar," Weber
says. "D'Alessandro is a very strong character and it rubbed off. On
the pitch together they were wonderful.

"Oscar married very young [to his childhood sweetheart Laura] and he
is very much a family man. He likes to stay at home and play video
games or watch movies. Since moving to London he sees a lot of
[Tottenham's] Sandro, who was also at Internacional."

As is common in South America, Oscar's registration before he joined
Chelsea was half-owned by his club and half by the player and
investors represented by his agent. It is no different to Neymar,
Lucas Moura and Paulo Henrique Ganso, the man Oscar replaced as
Brazil's No 10.

He has 11 caps, and scored twice in the friendly against Iraq this
month, and Alliatti says: "If the World Cup was tomorrow, Oscar would
be Brazil's No 10". His stunning second goal against Juventus last
month is just a taste of what he can do.

"He's a talented player," Chelsea manager Roberto Di Matteo said
yesterday. "I don't forget that he's still only 21. I don't want to
give him all the responsibilities in the world. He is learning the
language and getting used to the high tempo of English football. He's
playing for Brazil and all the travelling ... we have to be careful."

Weber warns: "In Brazil we have a very different fitness regime. In
Europe, players have to be stronger.

"I hope Chelsea understand that Oscar will never be a strong, stocky
player. He will always be a slim, fast, agile player. I watched him in
the game against Tottenham and I could see from that alone, he'll be
fine in England."

Oscar: From Brazil to Stamford Bridge

* Oscar dos Santos Emboaba Junior was born in Americana, Sao Paulo, on
9 September 1991
* Began his career at Sao Paulo in 2004 aged 13
* Took club to a tribunal due to a contract dispute, walking out after
the 2009 season to join Internacional
* Sao Paulo won an appeal on the verdict, leaving Oscar in limbo
between the clubs
* After three months without playing, the sides reached a settlement,
Sao Paulo receiving about =A34.5m in compensation
* Signed for Chelsea in July 2012 and handed No 11 shirt, previously
occupied by Didier Drogba
* Represented Brazil at the London Olympic Games, winning a silver
medal as they went down 2-1 to Mexico at Wembley

-- =

regards
Harry

_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
