Subject:Re: [Chelsea] Random thoughts
We can't win the league with Torres as our striker I think most of us
agree. Can we win with Luiz at centre back? I don't think so. Cahill and
Terry are our best pairing with Ivanovic as the backup and the Spanish guy
at right back. I've never seen a flakier centre back than Luiz. His
softness on the first goal in Ukraine and on two goals yesterday reveal his
limitations. Yet somehow he seems first on the teamsheet. Is he, like
Torres, a directive from Roman?  Graham

*****************************************************************

Absolutely agree.  I still think Ivanovic is a better center half than  full
back and apparently he prefers CH.  We need quicker fullbacks although I
also agree with the pundits that Cole was caught too far up front on a
couple of dangerous occasions.  Yeah, I cannot write or even pronounce the
Spanish right back but let's give him some games and stick Luiz on the
bench for a few a games

I also agree that we will not win much with Torres. We need a striker that
is going to score a goal at least every other game and occasionally get two
or three. Despite a few flashes I think Torres is simply a shadow of his
former self and he isn't going to get any better. For me his foot speed is
simply too slow.  For the league cup game give Sturridge a chance for a
full game as central striker.

BTW wasn't Real Madrid interested in Luiz?  Sell him to Jose and swap (with
cash) Torres for Falcao. Those cheers at Athletico Madrid's stadium must be
ringing in his ears.  I still think that Mata, Oscar and Hazard scared the
shit out of ManU.  But one has to admit that Robin VP was a shrewd buy.

Alec
_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
