Subject:[Chelsea] Roberto Di Matteo tells Chelsea players to summon spirit
	of champions [Guardian]
=95 Chelsea must beat Shakhtar to keep destiny in own hands
=95 Ashley Cole is injured for Champions League clash

Dominic Fifield

The scenario feels eerily familiar. Chelsea are a team under threat and
confront daunting opponents in Shakhtar Donetsk on Wednesday, with
Roberto Di Matteo suggesting they need to muster "the perfect game" to
reassert some authority on the section. The Italian has used such
rhetoric before, most notably ahead of last season's semi-final against
Barcelona, but his was a recognition that the holders must now improve
to progress.

Their continued participation in the Champions League teeters on the
brink. On the assumption Juventus' slick approach play finally yields a
first win against Nordsjaelland in Turin, Chelsea must defeat the
Ukrainians at Stamford Bridge to ensure their destiny remains in their
own hands. Shedding points tonight followed by defeat to Juve later this
month could jettison them ignominiously and prematurely from the
competition. This is an occasion to draw strength from the experiences
en route to Munich.

The manager conceded as much. "We'll need to be at our best and must
have the perfect game," said Di Matteo. "It's more than just about our
status [as holders]. Every individual player going on the pitch has to
perform at the best of their ability. There are comparisons certainly to
last season, when we had must-win games. This is another. Fortunately,
we have players with the experience who have been through that before
and performed in big games like this. That will help them deal with the
pressure."

This is Shakhtar, a team who have never previously prevailed
competitively in England, and not Bar=E7a but it feels an awkward
collision nonetheless. The visitors have swept all before them
domestically, their winning streak in the Ukrainian league now
stretching to 23 games to leave them 12 points clear at the top this
term, but Mircea Lucescu's charges have been just as imposing in
European competition. Their only blot on a perfect record was the group
draw in Turin, a match Di Matteo conceded they should have won, and they
certainly succeeded in scarring the champions at the Donbass Arena a
fortnight ago.

On that occasion they scored early and then picked off the visitors on
the break, wounding them down either flank with Alex Teixeira, Henrik
Mkhitaryan and Willian a menacing trio operating behind Luiz Adriano.
Teixeira isolated and exposed Ashley Cole, the full-back left critically
unprotected. He will be absent altogether on Wednesday night as well as
potentially from Sunday's visit of Liverpool =96 and, along with Frank
Lampard, surely from England's squad for next week's friendly against
Sweden =96 with a hamstring complaint picked up in the defeat to
Manchester United. His wait for a 100th cap will be extended into 2013.

Ryan Bertrand was trusted in the Champions League final, albeit in a
more advanced role ahead of Cole, and will step in at left-back but will
expect to be severely tested by Teixeira's trickery. The visitors will
sense vulnerability in the home back-line, even with John Terry restored
after his domestic ban. "Chelsea are very strong, but we're not the
weakest," said Lucescu, who was the last visiting manager to win a group
game here, with Besiktas in 2003. "I prepare my players knowing all
teams can be beaten, even Chelsea at home."

The holders conceded 10 in the four matches Terry missed, and the
captain was present in Ukraine when only Petr Cech's brilliance kept the
visitors afloat. "We conceded early and lost our organisation over
there," said Branislav Ivanovic. "They're one of the best
counterattacking teams in the group, so this will be very difficult. If
we're going to be successful, we have to be stronger defensively as a
team. That is the part of our game we have to improve. We will create
chances against any team. The question is about our defence. That's what
we have to work harder on."

This team boasted the ability to grind out results against Bar=E7a and
Bayern Munich in the spring, relying upon a combination of dogged
defence and Didier Drogba's brawn up front to muscle their way to a
first European Cup. That style has evolved since =96 "Changing," was how
Di Matteo described it =96 and there are valid questions over whether
their more flamboyant approach, in its relatively embryonic form, can
see them prevail against Europe's more impressive sides, into whose
number Shakhtar are hoping to burst.

Yet the management are not for changing. "You look at the goals we've
conceded in the Champions League and we've got many players behind the
ball," added Di Matteo. "It's not like we've been caught out. No, we
have to focus on what we can do, the problems we can create for the
opposition, and let them be concerned about us. We've had some
individual mistakes but, when we're fully focused, we're a very good
team." The reigning champions will hope to remind all-comers of their
qualities on Wednesday.

regards
Harry


_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
