Subject:[Chelsea] The price is wrong! Chelsea cool interest in Falcao and
	turn to less expensive options [Mirror]
[HS: More inclined to believe this than the Falcao one for reasons of
cost and other teams bumping up the price by competing. The point is, a
forward is definitely on the agenda. I'm also unsurprised if we're
looking at a left back - whether Cole stays or goes]

By Martin Lipton
5 Nov 2012 22:30

Loic Remy and Jackson Martinez could be available for far less than the
Columbian's =A346m price tag

Chelsea are going cold on Atletico Madrid hitman Radamel Falcao -
because Roman Abramovich is no longer convinced the Colombian is worth
his asking price.

Falcao has been the revelation of Atletico's impressive start to the
season, including the outstanding hat-trick that sank Roberto Di
Matteo's Blues in the UEFA SuperCup Final in Monaco in August.

But with Abramovich retaining faith in Fernando Torres despite his lack
of goals, the Chelsea owner is now signalling he is less than keen on
meeting Atletico's =A346million price for the South American.

While a January swoop is not out of the question - there are still two
months to go before the window opens and Chelsea have swapped targets at
short notice before - the Blues are now looking at cheaper alternatives
to add to their fire-power.

Marseilles' France striker Loic Remy, who was on the Chelsea radar at
the close of the summer window, is now understood to be back on the
agenda, with the =A315m tag not seen as too onerous.

And the other potential target is Falcao's fellow Colombian, Porto's
Jackson Martinez, who has scored nine in as many league appearances -
and 14 in all competitions - for the Portuguese side since his =A38m
arrival from Jaguares, beating the club records set by Falcao and
Brazilian Hulk.

Porto President Pinta Da Costa, who forced Chelsea to pay =A313m to land
Andre Villas-Boas in 2011 and played hardball with Spurs over Joao
Moutinho this summer, is likely to ask for nearer =A320m for the
26-year-old but Chelsea are looking to give Torres back-up until the end
of the season.

Meanwhile, Chelsea are scouting Wolfsburg=92s Swiss international left
back Ricardo Rodriguez.

Daniel Sturridge is good enough back up for Torres. Only Falcao is good
enough to add to what we already have, others are a waste, seeing as
Lukaku is looking good this year at West Brom, I'd like to see him back
next season instead.

regards
Harry


_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
