Subject:How to look like an IDIOT (and other useful tips!)
This offer is sent to 100% opt-in only subscribers. Easy
unsubscribe details can be found at the end of this email.

This AdMistress So Low Ad is being sent out by 7 ezines to
OVER 142,000 quality subscribers. Order YOURS Today!!
http://www.successful-marketing.com/advertise.html


              ** WIN Free Advertising! **
           See Details at end of this email!

=======================================

Hey James,


After using the Internet  for over 12 years (that's 4380
days for those who are counting). I have YET to figure out
how to send an email with a working link in it.

Which is why the last email I sent you had a broken link.


Doh! Sorry.


Here's the video


==> http://www.workfromnohome.com/?hop=rapturo14


This video is good because he truly walks the talk and shows
you on screen how he earns 5 figures on vacation armed with
just his laptop and all sorts of weird tricks.


Sickest part? He probably works half an hour a day, tops.


Here it is (now with actual working hyperlink!)


==> http://www.workfromnohome.com/?hop=rapturo14


Talk soon,



===============================

** WIN a Free Advertising Package - Value $421.00 *


Entry is 100% Free and all you need to do to participate is
answer the following question, the answer to which can be
found IN the Ad above or ON our Sponsors website!


Visit our Sponsors website and tell me what kind of reformed
'addict' this internet guru is ?


To submit your answer please go to the following site and
INCLUDE the "AD CODE 852V


http://www.admistress.com/solocomp.html

===============================
MATERIAL CONNECTION DISCLOSURE:
===============================

You should assume that the sender of this e-mail has an
affiliate relationship and/or another material connection to
the providers of goods and services mentioned in this
message and may be compensated when you purchase from a
provider. You should always perform due diligence before
buying goods or services from anyone via the Internet or
offline.


-----------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe from this list, please click on the link
below, OR contact me at:

Bill Vannot
webmaster@sassyads.com
61 2 42617124

Skype: bill.vannot

http://www.sassyads.com/mailer/unsub.pl?user=9vckc~s~9tmm^8it390ntcm~5zn&list=sassyads



