Subject:Brighten up your kitchen with this Award Winning Chef's Knife set for less than 7gbp!


Jean-PatriqueÂ®



 This is an email communication sent by Jean Patrique part of the TIA
Group of brands

 If you wish to stop these emails please
http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL2ZtbS5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLmNvLnVrL3RfdW5zdWJzY3JpYmUuYXNweD9taWQ9NDA5JmxpZCZzaWQ9MjM1JmU9c3VwcG9ydEBtaWNyb3Nwb3QuY28udWs%3D

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 Set includes an 8" slicer, an 8" bread knife, 8" Santuko chef's
knife,

 5" utility knife and a 3.5" paring knife

 *High-carbon stainless steel blades feature a revolutionary new
non-stick coating allowing food to glide right off - saving you time
and energy!*
 What a bright idea! Are you tired of having to stop and clear your
knife blade of minced garlic, sliced cheese or diced peppers and
onion? If so, this innovative 5-piece non-stick knife set is for you!
Superior to conventional stainless steel in that it allows the blade
to glide right through dense vegetables, thick-skinned fruits such as
melon and honeydew, firm textured cheese, tough cuts of meat and
delicate fresh fish, the long-lasting non-stick coating allows
whatever has been sliced or diced to simply glide right off the blade,
for much faster and more efficient food prep. The razor-sharp high
carbon stainless steel blades feature a unique non-stick coating which
resists stains, corrosion, abrasions and temperatures up to 220 C;
they will not pit or rust, and are an absolute doddle to clean.
Ergonomtically-designed handles provide a comfortable grip for
effortless slicing, whilst the unique colour coding system al-lows you
to select your knife of choice at just a glance. Take advantage of
this introductory offer and order yours today! Dishwasher safe. 

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 Great knives, love the quirky colours, they keep their edge quite
well and are eassy to sharpen when it has been lost. Quick dispatch

 - Emma, Surry - 

 I love these knives as they are beautiful to look at in my kitchen
and they are quality knives as well. A great purchase:)
 -Beverly, Birmingham-

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 *Our charge for post, packing, insurance, administration and handling
is £9.99.

 <http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLWNvb2t3YXJlLmNvLnVrL3ZpYnJhbnQtNXBpZWNlL2luZGV4LnBocD9mbW5hbWU9SlA1VmliMTAxMjEyRk1VU0VKQWN0MjAxMjEyMTBUSUFUSUFVbiZlbXNyYz1GTUk1VkI%3D>

 This is an email sent by Jean Patrique

 We hope this email has been of interest to you. Please use
http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL2ZtbS5qZWFuLXBhdHJpcXVlLmNvLnVrL3RfdW5zdWJzY3JpYmUuYXNweD9taWQ9NDA5JmxpZCZzaWQ9MjM1JmU9c3VwcG9ydEBtaWNyb3Nwb3QuY28udWs%3D
if you would prefer not to receive further email
communications from us

 By
receiving to these emails from us you are consenting to the use of
such technologies: find out more
<http://fmm.jean-patrique.co.uk/t3.ashx?sid=235&mid=409&oid=JJIDKVTJMIYTAMJSGEZEMTJAKVJUKLKKEBAWG5BAGIYDCMRNGEZC2MJQEBKESQKUJFAVK3Q=&url=aHR0cDovL2Z4cmFlbWUuY28udWsv>



 


