Subject:URGENT TRANSACTION/GOOD PARTNER
Dera Friend,
My name is Sgt. Rudy Garrett, an American soldier, I was serving
in the military of the 3rd Infantry Division in Iraq. I am in
Europe at the moment, I and my partner moved one of the boxes 
containing funds which we believe is belonging to Saddam Hussein,
in March 2003, the total fund in this box is $12,000,000.00 
(Twelve million US dollars), this fund had been moved via a safe
Diplomatic Courier Service to a secured security company, Click 
on this link: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/2988455.stm 
Basically since we are working for the American government we 
cannot keep these funds, since we are three in number that is 
involved. This means that you will take 30%, I and my partner 
will take 60% and 10% will be kept aside for expenses. 

This business is confidential, and we plead that it should not 
be discussed with anyone. There is no risk whatsoever involved 
as we left this fund in the Security company without declaring 
it's contents for this period of time to make sure that the fund
will be safe for transfer and investment. If you are interested 
I will send you the full details, my job is to find a good 
partner that we can trust and will assist us. kindly send me an 
e-mail signifying your interest including your telephone/fax 
numbers for quick communication and also your contact details.
I assure you that this transaction is risk free and its success 
is 100% guaranteed, Please help us to help you. Reply me via 
this email: sgt.rudyg@yahoo.ca for security reasons. 

Yours-in-service,
Sgt. Rudy Garrett

