Subject:[Chelsea] FA to review sanctions for racial abuse in wake of John
	Terry case [PA]
[HS: Adding clause of automatic guilt, ten year ban & =A310m fine if name
is John Terry]

Martyn Ziegler Tuesday 23 October 2012

The Football Association today said it will review its sanctions for
racial abuse in the wake of the John Terry case as chairman David
Bernstein called on disenchanted players not to form a breakaway union.

Terry was banned for four matches and fined =A3220,000 for racially
abusing QPR's Anton Ferdinand but some players feel the Chelsea captain
escaped lightly - especially compared to Liverpool's Luis Suarez who was
banned for eight games following his case involving Patrice Evra.

There is no fixed sanction for racism under FA rules - independent
disciplinary commissioners work on the basis of doubling sanctions if
there is an "aggravating factor" such as racial abuse.

Asked about whether the FA would look again at the tariff for sanctions,
Bernstein told a news conference at Wembley Stadium: "It's on the agenda
to look at it again.

"The FA received a certain, probably limited degree of criticism for its
processes in the Terry thing. We will look at that.

"I think the tariffs will need looking at but given the existing
scenarios and given other punishments elsewhere actually the commission
got it pretty much right."

Any rule change would have to be proposed by the Football Regulatory
Authority and come in from the start of next season.

Bernstein came to the defence of anti-discrimination body Kick It Out
after several leading players including the Ferdinand brothers and
Reading striker Jason Roberts refused to wear T-shirts backing a week of
action at the weekend.

It emerged today that talks about setting up a black footballers'
association have begun.

Peter Herbert, who chairs the Society of Black Lawyers, said talks about
the formation of an organisation - which has a working title of the
Black Players' Association - were "at a preliminary stage".

Bernstein said: "Do I hope players will stay within Kick It Out? Yes I
do. Fragmentation would be a shame, but at the same time we have to
understand on moral issues people have to be able to make their own
choices. But I hope it doesn't lead to a fragmentation, in the interests
of everybody.

"I have great respect for all the parties, for Anton Ferdinand and Rio
Ferdinand. Of course I understand their sensitivities. They have had a
pretty rough time. Anton has had a very difficult time as has had his
family.

"The fact this thing has taken so long - even though I would justify the
process - certainly hasn't helped. I have every sympathy for Anton.

"I'm uncomfortable that people feel uncomfortable, I feel that overall
the FA has handled recent issues, not just John Terry, actually very
well.

"We support Kick It Out in every respect both morally and financially. I
have got to know (Kick It Out chair) Lord Herman Ouseley and he has done
fantastically well. He has given me a very hard time even in my first
week as chairman, and has been very tough with us but always been very
fair."

The FA has been widely criticised for allowing the Terry case to go on
for almost a full year - it agreed to delay its hearing until the
outcome of a magistrates' court case and Bernstein defended that
decision.

He added: "I know the Terry thing took much longer than anyone would
want, of course no one would want it to drag on for a year, but there
were exceptional circumstances.

"It's easy with hindsight, it was a very particular situation and if it
was to happen again and we were asked by the authorities to delay our
process for legal reasons would we do it again? Possibly. I certainly
wouldn't rule it out, I'm very respectful of the law."

Meanwhile, Professional Footballers' Association chairman Clarke
Carlisle believes a breakaway union for black footballers would be
divisive and wants to meet the Ferdinand brothers and Roberts to discuss
their aims.

Carlisle said: "I've had a number of conversations with Jason over the
past few months. The most recent of them was on Sunday and they will
continue.

"Jason explained one or two things to me but I don't know what the full
intentions or the requests are of this breakaway group.

"The threat is very real because the proposal is there and the
discussions have been had so it's obviously something that has been
mooted within the industry.

"We have been having meetings with Jason and we have desperately been
trying to get Rio into the meetings and that will continue."

Gordon Taylor, chief executive of the PFA, called for unity.

He told the Daily Telegraph: "If they want their own particular select
group who they feel can influence everybody more than the whole PFA as a
union together, I would say they are seriously mistaken.

"If we are not careful this will set us back years. It would not only
set back the game, it would set back the anti-racist initiative. It
would encourage the extremists."

regards
Harry



_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
