Subject:[meteorite-list] Orionoid micrometeorites
Hello Listees. I hope everyone enjoyed the weekend.

I live in the Chicago suburbs and was not able to view the Orionoid 
meteor shower due to overcast skys and horrible light polution from the 
city. Knowing this would be the case, Two weeks ago while cleaning the 
gutters on the house I rinsed the entire roof off several times so that 
the amount of shingle material left in the gutter was less and less 
each rinse, until finally there was hardly anything coming off. 
Yesterday I affixed a fine screen to the end of my drain shoots and 
collected all the material that I was rinsing off. I soaked all the 
material in anhydrous alcohol for several hours and dried then dried in 
silica gel. What I had was a mix of different shigle materials, tiny 
twigs and hopefully something of interest.

I use a rare earth magnet to seperate the material into a pile of 
magnetic and a pile of non-magnetic materials. The magnetic material 
was them put in a petri dish and was sorted throught under high 
magnification for hours removing small magnetic materials in the rough 
shingle grit. After working all day doing this seperation i was left 
with stuff that left me with my jaw dropped.

What i was looking at were aerodynamiclly shaped black metalic pieces, 
some perfectly round, some pancake shaped, some bars, a couple buttons 
with rollover all around such as you would see in some indochinites, 
and even severl tear-dropped pieces with unbroke tails. Under even 
higher magnification you could see surface details and even multple 
skins on some of the tear drops and bb's. Along with them there were 
also bb's that looked slightly oxidized and were an orange color I 
assume were missed during the initial roof rinses, however  the the 
mass majority were shiny black and had very fine sufrface detail under 
magnification.

Is there a chance these are condensents of vaporized material from the 
Orionoid shower? If not why such the high concentrations of unoxidized 
aeroforms so dilicate I doubt would still have such perfect tails after 
my rigourous rinsing ahead of the  meteor shower.


Email me off list if your interested in pictures of what I've described 
above. I would love to hear some feedback from the community! I should 
have some pictures up for the masses to view shortly.

Regards,

Brandon D.
IMCA# 9312
______________________________________________

Visit the Archives at http://www.meteoritecentral.com/mailing-list-archives.html
Meteorite-list mailing list
Meteorite-list@meteoritecentral.com
http://six.pairlist.net/mailman/listinfo/meteorite-list
