Subject:[Birding-Aus] Freckled Ducks, Mill Park Lakes
     One thing after another ... I got lost en route and didn't get to 
Mill Park Lakes until about 11 a.m (Daylight Saving Time).  Two kind 
photographers were leaving (I hope with decent photos) and they directed 
me over the footbridge and on to the left, to the location for observing 
Freckled Ducks. By then two FDs were present - both apparently sound 
asleep, perched on small rocks, with their heads tucked down on their 
backs, facing away from me. No trouble with ID - their oatmeal speckles 
and raised triangular peak of the head still showed. Hardheads and 
Chestnut Teal dived and swam round them.  I felt twenty minutes of total 
immobility was enough, so decided to try the viewpoint from the 
peninsula opposite.  When I got there, one FD had disappeared leaving 
only one, now up-sun and just about out of range.

    Just off the point where I was standing, there is a long narrow 
island spit with small Swamp Melaleuca bushes on it, with a duck 
nest-box off its north end.  There seemed to be some ducks there in the 
shade.  Careful examination with binocs revealed that there were in fact 
ducks there - one spread a wing and proved itself a Chestnut Teal, but 
at least three had the speckles and even one peaked head could be made 
out - so that's where Freckled Ducks go when it's too hot and windy and 
they want a bit of peace.
      As usual, it proves I should have got up earlier.  A more 
up-to-date Melway would help too.

    Incidentally, by 12 noon (DST) when I left, the temperature was 
about 30 degrees Centigrade and the wind quite blustery (ABC weather 
report).

Antea Fleming
===============================

To unsubscribe from this mailing list,
send the message:
unsubscribe
(in the body of the message, with no Subject line)
to: birding-aus-request@vicnet.net.au

http://birding-aus.org
===============================
