Subject:[CT Birds] Water levels are high now
Echoing Frank's mention earlier, driving southern Stratford and taking a
last look at the restored dune at Stratford Point (which had water nearing
it already ugh) it is obvious how much higher than water is than usual,
even at this now falling tide. The Bridgeport marker peaked at 9.25 feet at
11:00, a strong 1.65 feet above the expected high tide of 7.60 at 10:48-54.
The water is going to be a huge problem, and I cannot stress that enough -
even if conditions improve and it is "safe" at some point you may not be
able to access many areas (like all of Lordship) because water covers or
has damaged the roadways. The storm is not going to peak for 36 more hours
and is very far from us, yet some spots are already reaching their limits
several tides away from the worst around midnight Monday. Anyone near LIS
and less than 15 feet above sea level really has to consider leaving or
finding another spot to bird.

Sustained winds at Stratford Point were already well into the 20s with
gusts to 30. Nevertheless, we should not see winds beyond a level which
many places have felt even in past storms. The problem is they will be
sustained for a far longer period with 40-50 and gusts of 60-80+ for a
while tomorrow. This also builds the water for longer periods of time into
LIS. The only thing in our favor is that the speed of the storm may bring
it in right before that peak tide at midnight morning, the surge at its
highest point a little before then. You do not evacuate for wind, you
evacuate for water, which I wish more people were doing. Bird on inland
water or from a high vantage point over rivers once the storm clears. Many
people know "The Perfect Storm" - well, this is basically #2, but worse and
closer to land.

Check out the wind field here in this GIF:
http://www.nhc.noaa.gov/storm_graphics/AT18/refresh/AL1812R+gif/152346R_sm.gif

I do not think there has ever been a wind field with tropical force plus
winds so large anywhere in the Atlantic, ever, or maybe in the
world...tropical, sub-tropical, whatever. Hyperbole is impossible with this
thing. I don't think we should underestimate what birds can and will be
pulled into this and where they could end up.

-- 
Scott Kruitbosch
Stratford, CT
_______________________________________________
This list is provided by the Connecticut Ornithological Association (COA) for the discussion of birds and birding in Connecticut.
For subscription information visit http://lists.ctbirding.org/mailman/listinfo/ctbirds_lists.ctbirding.org
