Subject:[burners] VOTE FOR DOUGS!
What's that, you say?  In a two-Doug system, the choice is irrelevant?  You
don't feel like there's a difference?  You feel your vote is wasted?

Well I'm here to tell you you're wrong!  Just look at how pathetic this
email is!  Just LOOK at the dearth of events following this rambling prose.
 Just look at the pointless meanderings of my ramblings, a troublesome
throwback to a time before Dougs.  It's a sad reminder of how quickly our
world can collapse without a Doug at the helm.  Like New Jersey without
fossil fuels, just a few days without one Doug or the other leaves us
frightened, cold, angry, and ready to put our faith in Chris Christie.  But
fear not!  Rumor has it there will be at least one dougspotting later this
week.  But you know how unreliable exit polls are, so don't hold your
breath.

Alrighty then.  When you head back from the polls today, cast your vote for
Doug at the CBC while you keep a nervous eye on CNN and mock the
holograms/giant touchscreens/lifeless androids that present the news.  7:30
til late, vote early, vote often.  Look for the freaks at the bar
celebrating like the Mayans were right, or just ask Chris (the bartender,
not the governor) where to find us.

Sincerely,

Jason in lieu of Dougs

EVENTS!!!

Well, shit, I'm taking that young lady I stole from the nursery all those
years ago to New Orleans for one of those birthdays that ends in a zero
(she's finally 30, just in time for me to think about...not being in my 30s
for much longer.  Bleah).  Which is my way of saying I haven't been paying
one bit of attention to the events listings, since I won't be here.  But I
know about these:

TODAY:  VOTEVOTEVOTEVOTEVOTEVOTEVOTE.  Then...try not to panic.  Deep
breaths.  Lots of comfort food.  And beer, lots and lots of beer.  Yeah,
that's the ticket.

TOMORROW:  Continue trying not to panic.  Or, get the champagne ready.  One
or the other.

FRIDAY:  Because post-Sandy, all our friends in New Jersey and Greenwich
Village are living like hobos, we bring you Hobotech at Jive. An Tua Na.
http://www.jiveboston.com/

SATURDAY:  Zombies vs. Santas bar crawl.  Yep, it's come to this.
https://www.facebook.com/events/162444000560162/

Erm.  That's it.  Anyone else got anything awesome to do this week/end?
_______________________________________________
Boston Burning Man Community
burners@bostonburners.org
Web ::http://bostonburners.org
List::http://chaoshacker.org/mailman/listinfo/burners
