Subject:[Chelsea] Talking to themselves...
[HS: The first piece is an article placed on the Man Utd website,
issued on behalf of Rio & Anton Ferdinand by New Era Golobal Sports
Agency - their agent. The second piece is an article on KickItOut's
website in response, also issued by New Era Global Sports Agency, who
are coincidentally also KickItOut's agent. Basically a thank you from
New Era to New Era for the generosity of their own statement.
Confused? You will be... It's a farking pantomime]

http://www.manutd.com/en/News-And-Features/Football-News/2012/Oct/rio-and-anton-ferdinand-issue-statement.aspx

Ferdinands issue statement
24/10/2012 19:00,
Statement issued by New Era Global Sports

It has been a year since the incident at Loftus Road. During that
time, some of the deep divisions that exist in football have been
exposed. In the coming months there will be ongoing discussions, we
are sure, on finding a way forward. We intend to participate in these
discussions, along with numerous other current and ex-professionals of
all races, from the grass roots upwards, across the football community
as a whole.

On the issue of Kick It Out, we would like to go on record to say what
fantastic work they have done in the past regarding education and
awareness. However, times change and organisations need to change with
them. We are more than happy to join the discussion, privately, to
make Kick It Out more relevant in its fight to stamp out racism in
football.

Although we have been left disappointed by the PFA and the FA's
actions over the last year, as a family, we are committed to working
with football's existing organisations towards the betterment of the
game and to achieve immediate action.

We would like to thank all the fans and the staff at Queens Park
Rangers and Manchester United for their support in what has been a
difficult year. In particular we want to thank Sir Alex Ferguson and
Mark Hughes.

We will not be discussing publicly any issues connected with the case.
We are now going to concentrate on playing football.

- Rio and Anton Ferdinand

~~~~~

http://www.kickitout.org/news.php/news_id/5650

Ferdinand brothers issue joint statement
Wednesday 24 Oct 2012

Rio and Anton Ferdinand have released the following joint statement.

"It has been a year since the incident at Loftus Road. During that
time, some of the deep divisions that exist in football have been
exposed. In the coming months there will be ongoing discussions, we
are sure, on finding a way forward. We intend to participate in these
discussions, along with numerous other current and ex-professionals of
all races, from the grassroots upwards, across the football community
as a whole.

"On the issue of Kick It Out, we would like to go on record to say
what fantastic work they have done in the past regarding education and
awareness. However, times change and organisations need to change with
them. We are more than happy to join the discussion, privately, to
make Kick It Out more relevant in its fight to stamp out racism in
football.

"Although we have been left disappointed by the PFA and The FA's
actions over the last year, as a family, we are committed to working
with football's existing organisations towards the betterment of the
game and to achieve immediate action.

"We would like to thank all the fans and the staff at Queens Park
Rangers and Manchester United for their support in what has been a
difficult year. In particular we want to thank Sir Alex Ferguson and
Mark Hughes.

"We will not be discussing publicly any issues connected with the
case. We are now going to concentrate on playing football."

A statement issued by Kick It Out read: "Kick It Out very much
welcomes this statement. We know and recognise the hurt that many
people have gone through over the last 12 months, none more so than
the Ferdinand family themselves. We will continue to work across the
campaigning and diversity agenda with all partners to ensure the
grievances of players are concluded fairly, thoroughly and swiftly."

From New Era Global Sports

-- 
regards
Harry

_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
