Subject:Re: [LUG] VBox version 4.2
On 23/10/12 09:43, Neil Winchurst wrote:
> I will do some research on Debian Testing but the work 'Testing' worries =
me.

Fear not, Debian is the most conservative distro of all - they even make
RedHat Enterprise look 'dangerous' by comparison.

Debian Stable is absolutely 100% rock solid, but coming from an
Ubuntu/Mint background you're going to find the standard package choices
surprisingly old. Despite it's name, Debian Testing is 99.9% solid and a
lot less flaky than pretty much every other distro out there, it also
has relatively more modern packages (and you can install PPAs on Debian
as well for more modern packages, although it's not normally encouraged).

Now Debian Unstable (aka, 'Sid') on the other hand is probably the most
volatile distro of all, and you'd have to be a real masochist to run
that as your daily driver - you'll get countless new packages every time
you run apt-get update, even several times a day. Stuff *will* break
regularly but at least you'll get to keep all the pieces. Personally I
love Sid and have used it on/off as my main OS for years but it's not
for the faint hearted or anyone who needs to Get Things Done=99.

In short, give Debian Testing a spin, you won't be disappointed and I
promise you it's rock solid and highly suited for everyday use.
Installing your choice of DE (in your case, KDE apparently) is a breeze.
At the risk of coming across all fanboy, I have used/admined just about
every OS under the sun but if I had to stick to one and only one OS for
the rest of my life, I'd install Debian and be done with it.

Good luck!

Regards

-- =

The Mailing List for the Devon & Cornwall LUG
http://mailman.dclug.org.uk/listinfo/list
FAQ: http://www.dcglug.org.uk/listfaq
