Subject:[CT Birds] Eastern CT coast (SOOTY/BRIDLED TERN)
A long day of soundwatching today. Jake Musser, Glenn Williams and I
started early at Avery Pt in Groton. Winds started at 25mph with gusts
to 35 out of the NNE. Birds moving early and often but nothing unusual
- actually just some late (for LIS) Common Terns were the "best" birds
of the morning. Winds shifted to NE and were clocked at sustained
45mph with gusts to 70(!) at the Ledge Light weather station around
2:30pm before that lighthouse apparently stopped transmitting. We were
starting to get into more wind-tossed birds when we were kicked out by
police around 3:30pm...really bad timing.

Jake and I then headed to Cornfield Point in Old Saybrook, which was
surprisingly reachable by car. Conditions were tough with wind and sea
spray, but there was very little rain so visibility was decent. At
4:30pm Jake picked up on an adult Sooty/Bridled Tern that moved past
us, just out of range of seeing key field marks but we saw nothing
inconsistent with Sooty Tern (which is what it probably was, given
their storm history in LIS versus Bridled's lack thereof). A
medium-large long-winged tern with medium-length tapered tail,
blackish upperparts and white underparts with contrastingly darker
underside to flight feathers. The bird was headed west with the wind,
not surprisingly.

Nick Bonomo
Wallingford, CT
www.shorebirder.com

_______________________________________________
This list is provided by the Connecticut Ornithological Association (COA) for the discussion of birds and birding in Connecticut.
For subscription information visit http://lists.ctbirding.org/mailman/listinfo/ctbirds_lists.ctbirding.org
