Subject:[Chelsea] Chelsea race case against Clattenburg in jeopardy with
	Mikel facing disrepute charge [Mail]
By Neil Ashton and Sami Mokbel

Chelsea's race case against Mark Clattenburg is in danger of collapsing
after it emerged that the club have employed independent lawyers to
investigate the claims of their players.

The club are expected to conclude their internal investigation into
allegations that the referee racially abused John Mikel Obi and called
Juan Mata a 'Spanish t***'.

The external lawyers will then provide Chelsea with legal opinion as to
whether their case will be successful. Despite issues over the available
evidence, Chelsea remained robust.

Clattenburg, who has been taken off the Premier League match list this
weekend, has protested his innocence since his controversial handling of
Chelsea's 3-2 defeat by Manchester United on Sunday.

Now it has emerged that Chelsea are fearful of the backlash if the
players have misheard or misjudged Clattenburg's conversations during
the stormy clash against United.

Chelsea will proceed with the case against the referee only if they are
satisfied the claims made by the players after the game will stand up to
the FA's burden of proof.

It means they will need to satisfy an FA commission 'on the balance of
probability', but they also have to negotiate the complexities of the
Metropolitan Police's investigation into the affair.

If the case breaks down, it will reflect badly on Chelsea, who made
their claims of inappropriate language against Clattenburg in a strongly
worded statement on Sunday, two hours after the final whistle.

Earlier it emerged that the club and Mikel could be charged with
misconduct by the FA after the midfielder had to be restrained from
manhandling the referee in his dressing room following the clash.

Clattenburg did not mention the behaviour in the 'extraordinary
incident' report he filed on Sunday, but he now has to make a detailed
statement to the FA. Clattenburg's assistants, Michael McDonough and
Simon Long, and fourth official Mike Jones have filed reports in which
they say they did not hear the Durham official say anything
inappropriate.

All four were in the referee's room when Mikel burst in with Chelsea
chief executive Ron Gourlay and manager Roberto Di Matteo.

Mikel's aggressive manner, along with the behaviour of other Chelsea
officials, raises the possibility of FA action against the club.

Both Mikel and Mata claim they have a witness to Clattenburg's comments,
and PFA chief executive Gordon Taylor, who has assessed both complaints,
told Sportsmail the pair have his '100 per cent support'.

However, it has emerged that the allegations about the referee's
comments were made only after a debate in the Chelsea dressing room.
Mikel and Ramires were discussing the alleged use of racist language and
were then quizzed by senior Chelsea players about what they had heard
before the matter was taken further.

Sunday's controversy is also the subject of a police investigation and
Clattenburg will be interviewed by them as well as the FA, who are
conducting a separate inquiry into his handling of the clash.

The PFA had a delegate at the game and he has discussed the matter with
Taylor, who said: 'The main thing is that the police investigation will
not affect the process at the FA.

'We are supportive of the players and they have our 100 per cent
backing. I find it difficult to believe that Chelsea's players would
make something like this up. At the same time I find it hard to conclude
that a referee could say something of this nature.'

Clattenburg found an unlikely ally in Leeds manager Neil Warnock, who
said he was disgusted with Chelsea for 'trying to kill' the official.

Warnock, preparing for Leeds' Capital One Cup win over Southampton last
night, was critical of the accusations against Clattenburg, who enraged
Chelsea by sending off Fernando Torres for diving when replays showed he
had been fouled.

Warnock said: 'You know my relationship with referees but I have to say
I am disgusted with what's gone on. I'm on Clattenburg's side. We ask
referees to man-manage and that's what he does. I'm sure he might have
said a few things but are you telling me if Chelsea had won that game
that there would have been one iota of a complaint?

'I hope if it is proved wrong, that the players, whatever they alleged
Mark to have said, get done as well. I think he made a mistake but they
are trying to kill him and I don't agree with that.'

In a further development, police chiefs upgraded security at Stamford
Bridge for the Capital One Cup tie against United as tension between the
teams threatens to escalate.


Rio tweets with interest...

Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand, who has been outspoken on
racism in football, tweeted on Tuesday morning: 'Will be interesting to
see how this alleged 'race' or 'insulting' language episode pans out,
our game is under the microscope like never before. Mikel was among the
Chelsea players back at training on Tuesday morning ahead of the rematch
with United in the Capital One Cup on Wednesday.

regards
Harry



_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
