Subject:Re: [Chelsea] DI MATTEO SURPRISED BY JAPAN DECISION [TOCFCWS]
Is this a 'reaction' to the outcry when the FA allowed Man Utd to
withdraw from the FA Cup to participate? or...

...more of the treatment metered out to Chelsea, akin to when asked to
re-arrange the FA Cup semi because of the Champions League game? They
made us play 1t at 18:00 on the Sunday!!! Unheard of &
unprecedented...which also led to the "booing" of the Hillsborough
silence that was misconstrued (& badly used) for which the club has been
pilloried.


Steve Palmer 
Dylai'r datganiadau neu'r sylwadau uchod gael eu trin fel rhai personol
ac nid o reidrwydd fel datganiadau neu sylwadau gan Gynulliad
Cenedlaethol Cymru, unrhyw ran ohono neu unrhyw gorff sy'n gysylltiedig
ag ef.
Any of the statements or comments made above should be regarded as
personal and not necessarily those of the National Assembly for Wales,
any constituent part or connected body.


-----Original Message-----
From: Chelsea [mailto:chelsea-bounces@jesternix.net] On Behalf Of Harry
Sideras
Sent: 11 November 2012 04:16
To: Chelsea
Subject: [Chelsea] DI MATTEO SURPRISED BY JAPAN DECISION [TOCFCWS]

Posted on: Sun 11 Nov 2012

Chelsea's second potential opponents in the semi-final of the FIFA Club
World Cup were decided this weekend and Roberto Di Matteo has also been
speaking about the tournament, revealing a declined request to postpone
of one of the club's domestic fixtures.

Ulsan Hyundai from South Korea won the Asian Champions League on
Saturday and will now play Mexican side Monterrey in the quarter-finals
of the Club World Cup, the match to take place on 9 December in Toyota,
Japan. The winner will then face Di Matteo's side four days later in
Yokohama.

With Chelsea scheduled to play Sunderland on Saturday 8 December, the
acclimatisation period will be short following the journey to the Far
East and although Monterrey have more reason to be concerned about time
zone differences than Ulsan Hyundai, either side will be more adjusted
than the Blues by the time of the semi-final.

Consequently discussions with the Premier League have been on-going on
whether our match at the Stadium of Light can be moved to allow an
earlier journey to Japan, but Chelsea learnt of the decision last week.

'We are very happy to go to Japan and we have tried to postpone the
Sunderland game to give us the best chance but the Premier League didn't
agree to it,' Di Matteo confirms.

'That certainly could put strain on the players because we are only
going to arrive three days before our first game in Japan. We would have
liked to go a few days earlier so the players are adjusted to the new
time zone. Travelling there with a nine-hour time difference, you want
to do everything in your power to be ready for those games. It is a big
injury risk as well.

'You would think the Premier League would have every interest in making
sure they give you the best chance of being successful in Japan, which
would reflect very well on English football and the Premier League so I
am very surprised about it, I can't get my head round it.

'The fixture list is obviously very full but where there is a will there
is a way. You see all the other confederations trying to help their
teams to do well in Europe. We talked about this last season as well.'

Di Matteo is referring to the request back in April to give the Blues an
earlier kick-off time for our FA Cup semi-final against Spurs on the
Sunday before we met Barcelona. That was not granted.

Looking ahead to the Club World Cup, our manager makes it clear how
seriously he is taking the tournament.

'Maybe in England it is not regarded as so but you speak to the South
Americans, the Asians and everybody that is involved and it is a massive
competition. Winning that trophy means the world.

'It is a trophy we don't have in our cabinet and we desperately want to
bring it to Stamford Bridge.'

Ulsan Hyundai qualified by beating Saudi Arabian club Al-Ahli 3-0 in a
final held in their own stadium in Korea. It is their first AFC
Champions League title.

The other teams now qualified for next month's tournament are Auckland
City from New Zealand who will play-off against a Japanese side for a
place in the quarter-finals, and Brazilian side Corinthians who qualify
automatically for the other semi-final.

--
regards
Harry

_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net

_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
