Subject:[Chelsea] THE DATA DAY: TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR V CHELSEA [TOCFCWS]
Posted on: Mon 22 Oct 2012

In a game with a high number of turnovers, it was the Blues who made the
better use of our opportunities at the weekend...

The most striking stat to start with is that Spurs attempted 26 shots to
Chelsea's 10, and were on target with 10 to our seven, but efficiency
was lacking for the hosts, and we made seven successful blocks to their
none - goalscorer Gary Cahill making three and Branislav Ivanovic two as
Jermain Defoe and co. were given little space to operate. Tottenham's 26
and 10 were the highest of any opponent this season.

Chelsea enjoyed 58 per cent possession, but only 46 per cent territory,
and it is worth noting that John Mikel Oi completed more passes than any
other player on the day, with Spurs frequently sat too deep to
effectively pressure Chelsea's midfield.

The midfielder found a blue shirt on 56 occasions from 64 efforts, while
Cahill made 53 out of 57 passes successfully. The top eight passers on
the day were all Chelsea men, reflecting the possession stats and also
our 85 per cent success rate with passes compared to Tottenham's 81.

Steven Caulker was their top passer with 34 from 37, though eight were
back to Brad Friedel, and their top six were all defensively-minded
players.

In the nine minutes from the start of the second half to Tottenham's
second goal, we misplaced 13 passes. In the remaining 40, including
injury time, only 28 were off target.

It wasn't really a day for Chelsea's dribblers, with Juan Mata and Eden
Hazard far more effective with their passing and shooting. Neither
player beat another once, while Tottenham's impressive Aaron Lennon was
dribble king with five successful take-ons out of seven, one of which
produced Defoe's goal. Hazard was none from five.

Where we were successful was in winning the ball back. Mikel won five of
five tackles and Ramires from four. Even Mata, hardly renowned for his
defensive work, won three from four, the last producing our fourth and
decisive goal. Sandro was Tottenham's most effective in this area with
four from six.

With strikes in either half, we have now scored in the last 11 halves of
football we have played. The last goalless 45 minutes came in the first
half against Stoke at Stamford Bridge on September 22.

Juan Mata now has six goals from five games, with two against Spurs
matched by a brace against Nordsjaelland, one against Arsenal and
another past Wolves.

regards
Harry



_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
