Subject:[Chelsea] Chelsea's Gourlay Experiences Ups and Downs With Triumphs,
	Terry [Bloomberg]
By Tariq Panja - Nov 13, 2012 12:41 AM GMT

Chelsea Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said the past 12 months have
delivered some of his best memories in soccer. They've also been among
the most turbulent in the English Premier League team's recent history.

Chelsea last week announced its first profit under owner Roman
Abramovich, whose $1 billion outlay on the club reached his aim of
winning Europe's elite Champions League in May, nine years after he
bought the London team. Captain John Terry's racism case and the club's
allegations that a referee used inappropriate language against Nigerian
midfielder John Obi Mikel have since threatened to overshadow the feat.

"Twelve months ago we could've sat here and I could never have dreamt
that we were going to enter into the kind of year that we had," Gourlay,
49, said in an interview at the International Football Arena conference
in Zurich. "There was some real ups and there was some real downs."

Although Chelsea finished last season as European champion and F.A. Cup
winner, the journey was far from smooth. Andre Villas-Boas, for whom it
paid 15 million euros ($19 million) to hire as coach, lasted six months
in the job before being fired following a poor start to the season.
Chelsea ended up in sixth place, its worst Premier League finish under
Abramovich.

"The Champions League turned the season," said Gourlay, a former
executive with Nike Inc. (NKE)'s Umbro unit who was promoted to the top
job at Chelsea in 2009. "Since Roman came on board, I think we've been
outside first or second only once and here we are Chelsea with all his
investment we're looking at sixth. We were in a place that none of us
had been used to."

Terry Case

Terry, 31, returned to Premier League action two days ago after a
four-game ban for racially abusing Queens Park Rangers defender Anton
Ferdinand in a match last year. The case polarized English soccer, and
hung over the club for almost a year as a criminal hearing into the
incident was delayed.

After a judge in July ruled there wasn't enough evidence to convict
Terry, a three-man body convened by England's Football Association in
September described his defence as "improbable, implausible and
contrived." Terry's team-mate Ashley Cole was then fined 90,000 pounds
($142,875) for making a derogatory reference to the F.A. on Twitter
after his supporting evidence was criticized by the governing body's
panel.

In an Oct. 20 interview with U.K. radio station Talk Sport, Gourlay was
told by presenter Mark Saggers that "further misdemeanours from any of
your 64-member squad will be perhaps enough for everybody to vilify
Chelsea for a very long time."

Gourlay said the club is still on notice.

Work Ahead

"It's not one of these you can draw a line under and say we move on," he
said. "We've got a lot of work to move that on."

While retaining him as captain, Chelsea said it levied the biggest fine
in the club's 107-year history on Terry, without disclosing the amount.
Terry also was asked to contribute more time to the team's corporate
social responsibility efforts, on which Chelsea says it spends 7 million
pounds annually.

With the Terry case still fresh, Chelsea's complaint that referee Mark
Clattenburg used "inappropriate language" toward Mikel on Oct. 28
brought the club back into the spotlight.

Gourlay said it was the club's duty to Mikel as an employee to
investigate his complaint and take the allegation to the authorities.

"We cannot walk away from that," said Gourlay. "It's not right for
Chelsea Football Club or anyone to walk away from that and whether it be
a football player, whether it be the lady that makes the tea, it doesn't
make any difference."

Clattenburg hasn't officiated since the incident and has denied using
inappropriate language. Gourlay said he wants the F.A. to "act pretty
quickly" once investigations are complete.

Profit Return

The negative headlines were followed by last week's announcement of a
1.4 million-pound profit that ended seven straight years of losses
totalling about 550 million pounds, or 75 million pounds annually, since
Abramovich's takeover. The Champions League victory helped generate
record sales of 255.7 million pounds for the year ended June 30.

The club banked about 20 million pounds more from the Champions League
last season than it did by reaching the 2011 quarterfinals. Even if
Chelsea fails to defend its title, Gourlay said the team's balance sheet
will be "significantly" boosted following new partnerships with
companies including Delta Airlines and Gazprom. Long-term partner
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) in May extended its jersey sponsorship
through the 2014-15 season.

Samsung has never commented on the Terry case.

"It's dented some of the armour but it's not dented the image of the
football club," said Gourlay. "Our partners are completely behind us 200
percent and I think we've always been very straight with them."

regards
Harry



_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
