Subject:[Chelsea] Fernando Torres still testing strength of Chelsea's
	protective cordon [Guardian]
Striker insists he is a better player but only goals can repay the
support shown by everyone at Stamford Bridge

David Hytner

Fernando Torres's Chelsea career is the pub debate that never stops.
The critics always believe that they boast the loudest and decisive
word when they highlight his scoring record since the =A350m transfer
from Liverpool to Stamford Bridge: 18 goals in 81 appearances, which
includes the one against Manchester City in the Community Shield in
August. Should that count? Even that was up for question at Roberto Di
Matteo's briefing for Sunday's Sunday's showdown with Manchester
United.

The anti-Torres argument is simplistic and it fails to acknowledge the
work that he does in other areas for the team. Everyone at Chelsea
stresses the point, from the directors to the players. Doubtless the
big man says it too, although no one can be entirely sure what Roman
Abramovich thinks. Suffice to say that the owner made it a personal
mission to prise Torres from Liverpool and, this season, having
removed almost every established striker from the payroll, he wants to
love Torres's efforts more than ever.

Torres says he has become a better player at Chelsea, learning to
"play more outside the box, associating more with my team-mates". He
makes assists. He feels he can "mix it more". His supporters will urge
you to look at his all-round game. At times this season it has been
eye-catching. The Chelsea diehards have stuck with him because they
see the intensity of his work rate and the flickers of the player that
he was at Liverpool and before that at Atl=E9tico Madrid.

Perhaps they enjoy the feeling of closing ranks around one of their
own in the face of hostility. The yearning for him to roll back the
years is deep and it should be noted that it is pronounced among the
neutrals as well. There have been few finer sights in the Premier
League years than Torres, in Liverpool colours, switching on the
afterburners and finishing with ruthless cool.

The trouble for Torres these days is the sense that he is rarely more
than a couple of patchy performances from scrutiny or crisis. The
weight of recent history does not help. When a striker goes five
months and 25 games without a goal, as Torres did for Chelsea last
season, his overall club numbers may never recover. Nor may his
confidence.

Torres's performance in Chelsea's 2-1 Champions League defeat by
Shakhtar Donetsk on Tuesday was some way short of patchy; there was a
spell early in the second half when his touch and decision-making
broke down completely and it is at those moments when even his most
passionate defenders shift uncomfortably and it becomes easy to
question his state of mind. In the previous game, the 4-2 win at
Tottenham Hotspur, Torres had played well but there was still a move
when he wriggled through and, to general shock, looked to pass instead
of shoot.

The amateur psychologist enjoys himself with Torres. When forced to
rely on instinct in front of goal the player has shown wonderful
flashes this season, especially in the Premier League against
Newcastle United and Arsenal, when he scored crucial goals. Yet the
suspicion that remains that he can over-think scoring situations if he
has the time.

"Strikers are instinctive and it is difficult to understand what goes
through their mind when they are in a position," Di Matteo said, when
asked about the notion. "I have never been a striker so I wouldn't be
able to know but they have that instinct. Fernando has always had that
and he still has it."

The pressure on Torres is intense and, in the wake of Donetsk, it will
be more marked still against United. The 28-year-old often looks as if
the weight of the world sits on his shoulders and, with only Daniel
Sturridge in the squad to provide competition or respite, he must also
contend with a physical burden. Torres has started in every match this
season and, although Di Matteo said that he was not afraid to drop
him, or indeed anybody, it was hard to envisage seeing Torres on the
bench on Sunday.

The manager talked up Torres's more encouraging strike rate this
season, which stands at six in 14 games if the Community Shield is
included, and Di Matteo wanted it to be. Others are less sure;
Branislav Ivanovic's red card in the fixture did not count. It has
regularly felt like a battle for everybody inside Stamford Bridge to
paint Torres in the most favourable light and Petr Cech found himself
on the spot after Shakhtar.

"All strikers need goals," the goalkeeper said. "His movement creates
space for others and you could see at Tottenham that others took
advantage. I think it is just a matter of time for Fernando."

The fact that the questions keep coming is instructive.

-- =

regards
Harry

_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
