Subject:[Chelsea] Chelsea's problem is that everything is seen through John
	Terry prism [Independent]
Difficult decision for club to make accusation given recent history
involving their captain

Jack Pitt-Brooke Monday 29 October 2012

Surely there is not a single employee of Chelsea Football Club who
arrived at Stamford Bridge on Sunday morning to open up the ground, to
welcome Manchester United, who wanted that night to end this way.

But, on the night of the match, it was left to club officials to file a
complaint about the conduct of Mark Clattenburg. The complaint went to
Premier League match delegate Nick Cusack, who would pass it on to the
Football Association. And the first lines were written of what could be
months of acrimony, legal debate and the intense, bitter unpleasantness
which seems to stain everything English football touches this decade.

On Sunday, Chelsea were still dealing with the loss of John Terry. Their
captain was sat in the stands, for the second match of his four-game ban
for language used almost exactly one year before. All he could do was
watch as Robin van Persie educated David Luiz and Gary Cahill.
Throughout, the United fans made clear what they thought of Terry's
conduct and also that of Ashley Cole during the whole sorry affair.

The whole racial abuse issue is still everywhere. The home fans, for
their part, were not exactly hospitable to Rio Ferdinand, also reminding
him that Terry had been England captain before him, and after. Terry, of
course, is still Chelsea captain, and has two games of his ban left.
That great unravelling which started at Loftus Road last October may yet
have careers to upset. It nearly upturned the Professional Footballers'
Association last week.

So when Chelsea officials heard about the complaints of their players
regarding Clattenburg, there must have been caution. Not just a natural
caution born of any issue this serious but also one based on recent
events. Who could possibly want to see anything resembling the last 12
months take place a second time?

Chelsea will not have taken the evidence they had lightly. They will not
have taken the implications lightly. They certainly will not have taken
the potential process lightly. They are, despite Sunday's loss, top of
the Premier League, playing the most attractive football in the country,
driven by the outstanding player so far this season in Juan Mata and the
two most exciting, Oscar and Eden Hazard. They do not need a
distraction.

But clearly there was a sense, in the bowels of Stamford Bridge, at
around 7pm on Sunday evening, that this was a matter of the utmost
seriousness and one which Chelsea would engage firmly. If the club felt
that their players had been wronged - and, clearly, they do - they have
a duty to support them.

The issue, though, is one of perceived credibility. There is a toxic
accusation about that Chelsea, after the public humiliation of recent
months, are interested to feel how the shoe feels on the other foot. If
there is anger at how their captain was treated by the authorities, how
would the authorities like to see their representative tainted in the
same way? If all language on the pitch is actionable, then can Chelsea
be the victims as well as the perpetrators?

What that reading shows is that it is impossible for Chelsea to escape
from the prism of the Terry affair. Their anti-racism measures are very
important to the club. Owner Roman Abramovich feels very strongly about
anti-Semitism and discrimination and is keen for his club to appear as
welcoming as possible.

There was a "One Game, One Community" banner paraded on the pitch by
schoolchildren before kick-off on Sunday. The Chelsea players were all
wearing their "Kick It Out" T-shirts. Chelsea work desperately hard to
eradicate the problem of racism among some of their supporters. Stephen
Fitzwater was banned from Chelsea for life this summer after racially
abusing Didier Drogba. They work tirelessly before and during games with
Tottenham Hotspur because of what might be said or sung.

But credibility on these issues is easy to lose and hard to win back. To
many in the game and outside, the fact that it was John Terry who wrote
in Sunday's programme notes that Chelsea are "committed to eradicating
all forms of discrimination from our game" was an absurdity too far,
even in the Premier League, even in 2012.

Chelsea, their critics say, had a perfect chance to make a meaningful
stand this month. They could have stripped Terry of the captaincy after
he declined to appeal against the FA independent regulatory commission's
four-game ban. But there he was, in Donetsk last week, striding out with
his anti-racism captaincy armband. He will lead Chelsea out again a week
tomorrow against Shakhtar before returning to domestic football and
domestic captaincy against Liverpool on Remembrance Sunday.

So Chelsea, trying to fight on behalf of players they feel have been
wronged, have an issue. They are serious about this. They may, in time,
be shown to be right. But after recent events they find their
credentials on these matters impugned. And so they have a job to
persuade and convince the world that, while this is not what they
wanted, they mean what they say.

regards
Harry



_______________________________________________
Chelsea mailing list
Chelsea@jesternix.net
http://jesternix.net/mailman/listinfo/chelsea_jesternix.net
