Subject:CAN YOU BE TRUSTED

I write you with all honest desire to help me to secure the sum of
Â£6,500,400 (Six million, Five hundred thousand, four hundred British Pounds
Sterling) only in a dormant account in my bank here in London, UK. This
account has been dormant since November 2009. The account is without an
inheritor or Next of Kin linked to it. The account owner is late. He died
in February 2009 with his wife and their only daughter.

Trying to link up his other relatives is not an option for me as there is
no  beneficiary/inheritor attached to the account; So I decided to contact
you in other to make you the beneficiary/inheritor as the next of kin to
the fund since you share the same last name with the deceased account
owner. I will process papers presenting you as the inheritor to the account
and the fund therein and it will be paid to you without any problems. Be
aware that I am in good position to work on the files of the late account
holder and present who the inheritor is to my bank. There are practically
no risks involved as long as you will remain honest to me and follow my
instructions. The processes will be executed under a very legitimate
arrangement that will protect you from any breach of the law and it will be
simply a bank-to-bank Telegraphic transfer (Swift/Telex). Your major role
would be to stand as the beneficiary to this fund in my bank and provide an
account where the fund will be transferred to. If you accept write me back
via
(petersmith0744@gmail.com ) and I will tell you what we will do to
accomplish this. Please note that your participation will be 40% of the
total fund transferred to your account.



My kind Regards,
peter smith.

